Johannesburg - This week we feature South African-born musician Thabilé. The artist, who is based in Stuttgart, Germany, recently released her new genre-bending 12-track album, 'Read My Lips'. The album offers a persuasive testament to the human spirit’s ability to transcend in the face of obstacles and seemingly insurmountable odds. Thabile’s confident, vibrant and inspired performances bring the songs’ upbeat lyrical sentiments to life. Thabilé, who was born and raised in Johannesburg, in the Dlamini township, found her way to music through her mother, who has travelled all over the world as part of a choir. It’s her mother who, with a lot of love, encouraged eight-year-old Thabilé to sing in the school choir and later, in the church choir. Who has the better food – Germany or South Africa? I would say South Africa. South African food has so much flavour because of the many spices we use and there’s different variations of each dish because of the different cultures, so there’s always something for everyone. What is the one thing you really miss about South Africa? Besides my family and the delicious food, there’s an indescribable vibe/feeling in the air in South Africa that I’ve never felt in any other country. I miss that feeling of actually feeling “at home”. You are able to collaborate with any musician in the world on a track. Who do you choose? I love the richness of Gregory Porter’s voice and I love singing along to and harmonising with him on his songs. A collaboration would be beautiful. The biggest misconception people have of you? I am honestly not aware of any misconception people may have of me. Your favourite item of clothing in your closet? An old Alpaca wool sweater that was gifted to me by my mother some years back. Your celebrity crush growing up? The late Lee Thompson Young was my crush for some time. I made sure I never missed his show “The famous Jett Jackson”. What would you like to be remembered for? I would like to be remembered as a person who was peaceful, helpful and kind because I do try to help, even in the tiniest way such as lending an ear to someone in need of some venting. What one thing has caught your attention on social media lately? Yet another deadly school shooting in the US, unfortunately. Your favourite German dish? I enjoy Spätzle prepared in any type of way, but my favourite thing that could come out of a German kitchen is “Schweinshaxe” (roasted ham hock) because I’m such a meat lover. Your biggest regret? Maybe my one tattoo that I had done when I was young and naïve, but I always forget that I have it a lot of the time. Other than that, I don’t have any regrets. The Saturday Star