Johannesburg - Babongile Mandela is certain that his great grandfather would have been delighted at his latest job opportunity. “Tata would have definitely given a thumbs up,” a jubilant Babongile says as he giggles away. In April, the 35-year-old joined the Coca-Cola South Africa Franchise as the new Public Affairs, Communications, and Sustainability Director (PACS). He’s joined the global brand from Absa Group’s Corporate Affairs division, where he held the position of Senior Manager responsible for strategic initiatives and engagements. This is a modal window. Beginning of dialog window. Escape will cancel and close the window. End of dialog window. Despite only having been there for two months, Babongile seems to have settled in well at his offices in Rosebank, Johannesburg. And the Mandela has been the talk of the office. “I did pick up a bit of excitement in the office. It is a rare surname. Everyone was very curious to find out who I am. But it's been such a great transition. Coke has done a lot to make their employees feel at home. “The moment you walk in, people are friendly and are always willing to assist, and that’s been quite different from other corporate experiences that I have experienced.” While delighted at having made the career move, Babongile is certain that his great grandfather would have also approved. “He spent his life trying to ensure that the South African people live in a just and equitable society. If you look at my journey and this position at this new job, specifically the sustainability leg, it does try to contribute towards that. “When you look at our objectives as an organisation, such as making sure that our South African citizens have water security, when you look at our element of women and youth empowerment, it is our contribution as an organisation to create a just and equitable society, so Tata would be very proud.” Babongile, who has a Bachelor's degree from the University of Cape Town in Politics, Public Administration, and Sociology and holds a Master’s degree in Global Political Economy from a joint programme between the University of Stellenbosch and the Peace Research Institute of Oslo in Norway, steps into a very important role at the global brand, with the 35-year-old responsible for building and maintaining Coca-Cola Africa’s strong reputation through effective government relations and media communications, and in ensuring that the brand attains their sustainability objectives. He’s also in charge of giving direction in identifying, assessing, and managing risks and opportunities that may affect the franchise's business in South Africa. While Babongile has his work cut out for him, he says he is relishing the opportunity to thrive at the brand. While Tata may not be around any longer, Babongile says the wise words of his great grandfather still rings true - and that he’s taken the advice with him to Coca-Cola. “I think he would say, do not forget the disenfranchised. Madiba was quite keen on making sure that everything that South Africa does needs to contribute to rural development, so that everyone has access to opportunities, resources and certain privileges that are enjoyed by other people in society. “Over Christmas, he would tell all corporates that, in the Eastern Cape and Qunu, they must contribute something related to their own products that ensure people in the Eastern Cape, who symbolically represent the people that don’t have access to the mainstream economy, and job opportunities that people have in urban areas, do get a chance that one time in Christmas.” The 35-year-old arrived at Coca Cola at an exciting time, with one of his first challenges being to facilitate and plan the Fifa World Cup Trophy Tour in South Africa. “It was exciting but very busy, and I mean scrambling to get everyone around the table to agree on how we are going to roll out this trophy tour, how are we going to get the SA people part of it and excited. The trophy tours journey exclusively went to the townships in Gauteng. We went to Alexandra, Mamelodi, and our biggest launch was in Maponya Mall in Soweto.” Babongile has also had to deal with the ongoing and controversial sugar tax issues. “Earlier this year, our national treasury announced an increase in sugar tax for all products, and we have constantly been engaging with the state to try and make them understand the timelines that we are embarking on to ensure we meet their health objectives. And just getting everyone around the table and having a common understanding of Coca-Cola’s reformulations journey, and the governments needs and priorities to combat issues of obesity and health within the public.” One of his main focuses as the Public Affairs, Communications, and Sustainability Director will be to safeguard the reputation of the company. “This will be from a regulatory perspective where the state would be enacting laws that may be harmful in the long run, so the public affairs part of it is that engagement with state and the public. “To engage with them about what the company’s long term strategy is in the country and the continent and how we are going to contribute to the economic growth and poverty elevation - so that you create that sense of comfort with government so that instead of being adversaries and having the state tax the organisation till it bleeds, we can then find common ground on how we can prosper together. “The communications part of it is then trying to communicate to the public about the good work the company does. And then of course, the sustainability of the brand and how does Coca-Cola become a good corporate citizen.” While Babongile says he put deep thought into his career move, he says, in the end, it turned out to be an easy decision. “I joined for quite a few reasons. Personally, as a student of international relations, working for a global organisation is right up my alley. I will have global exposure working with different markets. “From a professional level, it was the value system that Coke espouses. If you look at their sustainability strategy, as a student of social science, one is always wondering, whichever space I am in, how do I make a difference and at Coca-Cola, they strive to make a difference within their space of operation.” “You look at their sustainability journey where they know they are huge users of water, for example. When you find that a company has that sense of consciousness, and that we not only here for business but also to improve the communities where we operate, then it has that personal resonation with me. “While I cannot suppress my family legacy, I strive to make a difference wherever I am.” During his time at ABSA, Babongile focused on women empowerment as one of his priorities. He says he will continue to do that at Coca-Cola. “I’m definitely planning on incorporating that element. I always tell people that I am on the side of the disenfranchised. If you look at South African society, women often bear the brunt of exclusion, whether issues of equal pay or job opportunities, or participating from a business perspective in the economy, so wherever I work, issues of women and youth are prioritised.” Business aside, the 35-year-old has also spoken about his love for Coca-Cola products and says he was attached to the brand since he was a young kid. “Many people have good, fond memories of Coca-Cola. It was one of the first beverage companies that came to the African continent, and for me, having grown up in the rural areas, if you look at brand association, every other fizzy drink is called Coca-Cola. “You’ll often hear the old ladies say, ‘can I have the orange coke’. Even for me, I grew up drinking Coca Cola. In the rural area I grew up in, we had one Spaza Shop that everyone hung out at. We would play soccer, and when it was really hot, we would meet there, and the owner would give us Coke.” While relishing his new role, he admits that his ultimate goal is to one day work for the United Nations. “A dream, of course, is made out of many pieces, and this journey at Coca-Cola is but a piece of it. My dream is to live a happy life and to chase after the pursuit of happiness. However, in terms of where my dream job is, it’s to work for the UN. “I try to touch on all sectors to ready myself for that eventuality so that if I do get that opportunity, I am ready to understand what goes on on the other side. The UN has the power to make change, and I see it as a platform that will enable me to have the biggest impact to changing the lives of people, and that is why I have identified this space and environment as a place that I would like to go to.” The Saturday Star