Johannesburg is the third cheapest holiday destination for the most sunshine in the world, a new study has revealed. The research, conducted by Park Fly Sleep, one of the globe’s leading websites to compare and book airport, hotel and flight packages, found that Tirana in Albania was the most affordable vacation destination for sunshine. The area in the south of Europe was found to have an Average Annual Sunshine Hours of 3,452, the Average Daily Sunshine Hours was 9.5, and the Average Cost of a Double Hotel Room for One Night is €49 (about R812.20) while the Cost per sunshine hour is €5.19. Second on the list was Denpasar, Bali, Thailand, with an Average Annual Sunshine Hours of 3,138, and the Cost per sunshine hour is €5.99. Johannesburg, South Africa, came in third, with an Average Annual Sunshine Hours of 3,334, the Average Daily Sunshine Hours was 9.1, and the Average Cost of a Double Hotel Room for One Night was found to be €65 and the Cost per sunshine hour was €7.08. Other regions the Park Fly Sleep research found to be the cheapest holiday destination for the most sunshine in the world are Bucharest, Romania and Nicosia, Cyprus, which all ranked in the top 5. Meanwhile, Fresno, California, Cairo, Egypt, Rhodes, Greece, Panaji, Goa, India and Phuket, Thailand, all ranked in the top 10. The researchers also found that the most expensive places to stay are Lahaina on the Hawaiian island Maui, Miami, and Belle Mare, Mauritius. They explained that in terms of Johannesburg, it has great weather all year round and attracts millions of tourists every year for its climate, wildlife, and culture. “The travel experts at ParkSleepFly wanted to find out which of the most popular sunny destinations receive the most daily sunshine hours for the price of staying in a hotel,” the website said. “While the list doesn’t account for the cost of flights, food, and entertainment, it shows which of the world’s top holiday locations you can stay in to get the most sunshine for your money.” Park Fly Sleep said that they wanted to find out which popular vacation destinations have the lowest average nightly hotel cost per sunshine hour. In order to compile the research, The average sunshine hours per year for each destination were sourced from Climate-Data.org, which provides free access to NCDC's archive of global historical weather and climate data in addition to station history information. To calculate the average amount of sunshine hours per day for each location, they divided the average amount of sunshine hours per year by 365. The average hotel cost per night was sourced from Kayak, which searches hundreds of other travel sites at once to find the information needed to make the right decisions on flights, hotels,  and car hires. Thee figure for the average price of a double room for one night was used. The Saturday Star