JOHANNESBURG – The Joburg Ballet is gearing up for RAW 3, the company’s third showcase in two years of works by aspiring local choreographers. Three performances are expected to take place at the Joburg Theatre next weekend. Launched in 2020, the show’s artistic director Iain MacDonald described it as “an initiative to give choreographers a platform to create new works in a setting where the audience has the opportunity to interact with the process”. “Choreography is a creative endeavour that cannot be done in isolation and the choreographer’s instrument is the dancer’s body and placing the dancers in the creative hands of aspiring choreographers is the idea behind this project,” MacDonald said. He added that this year’s programme is particularly rewarding for the organisation as three of the four choreographers will be creating their second works for RAW. “This indicates not only personal continuity but also allows them to bring to the process what they learned the first time round.” For JOBURG BALLET RAW 3, four new ballets created by three dancers and one member of the company’s artistic team will feature the work of dancers Donavin Cicatello, Bruno Miranda and Mbongeni Moyake, as well as Junior Rehearsal Coach, Thabang Mabaso. Of the four, only Miranda is making his RAW debut. Joburg Ballet has also invited established South African choreographers Kelsey Middleton, Ignatius van Heerden and Roseline Wilkens to engage with the audience and the four choreographers to explore the creative process. “To enhance the value of this experience for both choreographers and audiences, the performances will be followed by interactions between the creators and audiences in the form of question-and-answer sessions,” MacDonald said. JOBURG BALLET RAW 3 will take place on June 11 at 3pm as well as June 12 at 11am and 2pm at Joburg Ballet Studios at the Joburg Theatre in Braamfontein. For more information, contact Futhi Zwane on 011 877 6898 or futhi@joburgballet.com The Saturday Star