Johannesburg - This week we feature Cape Town-born singer and songwriter Anica Kiana. At the start of 2019, shortly after graduating from high school, Anica set off to pursue her goal of becoming a force in the entertainment industry. After releasing three singles independently and garnering support from local radio stations, she quickly caught the eye of internationally acclaimed South African pop duo Locnville, who featured her on their Sama award-winning album Tribes & Angels. The next two years would see the songstress develop her sound even more, eventually catching the attention of South African global hip-hop phenomenon Nasty C, who praised Anica Kiana for her “voice of gold”. The two would later go on to complete Anica’s formal debut single, Gotta Leave, released on August 27, 2021 from CBGSV Entertainment. You are able to collaborate with any artist in the world on a track. Who do you choose? I would definitely choose Ariana Grande because she is my favourite artist and she’s also the most versatile. She sounds amazing on any song she features on and she’s a hard worker. The artist that made you fall in love with pop music is ...? When I was younger I used to listen to Maroon 5, Pink and Kelly Clarkson. I guess they’re the reasons why I developed a love for pop music. A wild night of partying or a chilled night in watching Netflix? I like a balance between both. One night going out and the next night staying in watching Netflix. Tell us about the worst date you’ve ever had? The person didn’t organise any means of transport to get to the date so my parents and I had to fetch him from where he was and drop him off again later that day. I’m not saying he had to pay for everything, but he didn’t even offer to pay for the food or drinks. My parents didn’t like him so I just stopped talking to him after that experience. What series should all South Africans be watching right now? I haven’t really been up to date with the series that’s out at the moment. But I would highly recommend the series YOU. What one thing has captured your attention on social media in the past week? Shawn Mendes released a music video for his new heartfelt song called It’ll be okay. The most popular item of clothing in your closet currently is ...? My Dr. Martens shoes. Your celebrity crush is ...? It will forever be Justin Bieber. Your favourite restaurant in SA is ...? Ocean Basket has always been my favourite since I was younger. I love seafood! I normally order the prawns and mussels combo. You can challenge any South African artist to a sing-off. Who do you choose to come up against? I would choose Elaine just so that I’d have the opportunity to meet her! Her voice is beautiful. The Saturday Star