Johannesburg - Sandton’s Redhill School is in celebration mode as some of its matriculants proved to be among the top pupils in the world. This is as the private English co-educational multi-faith day school Class of 2021’s IB ( International Baccalaureate) students’ achieved an average point score of 37 out of a potential 45. In addition, five of its 18 students achieved a score of 40 points or more, ranking them amongst the world’s best. Meanwhile, over 66% of their matriculants scored 36 points and above, the benchmark result for access to some of the most prestigious universities in the UK and US. “These results place Redhill’s IB students into a category where a student scoring the average alone would qualify for consideration by some of the top universities around the world,” Redhill’s executive head Joseph Gerassi, said. He said that the school was thrilled at this achievement. “Redhill is currently the only South African school to offer students the option of graduating with either an IEB Matric or International Baccalaureate (IB Diploma),” Gerassi explained. “While offering two very different curricula and navigating the various staffing and venue challenges that arise, it is incredibly rewarding to see our students excel on an international level while also potentially gaining access to some of the very best universities in the world.” Gerassi noted that their pupil’s success comes after two, “extremely challenging years that required them to dig deep, navigate between online, hybrid and on-campus learning, and partner with their peers in new ways to achieve their full potential.” “Not only have they earned the respect of the Redhill teachers, but also inspired the students following in their footsteps who have witnessed their journey and learned from their example.” Gerassi added that two of the top five pupils have applied to international universities, one in the USA and one in Canada, while the remaining three have opted to study in South Africa or take a gap year to travel. “The International Baccalaureate Diploma Program is not just for students wishing to study abroad, but also those wanting to drive their own learning, learn to think critically and solve complex problems, become more culturally aware and able to engage with people in an increasingly globalised rapidly-changing world, and develop strong academic, social and emotional characteristics that will serve them throughout their lives going forwards.” The Saturday Star