Johannesburg - This week we feature radio and TV presenter, author, and motivational speaker Lucia Dramat. Dramat is best known for her role as a radio presenter on Radio Helderberg’s breakfast show. She’s also featured on TV shows such as Watchmen on the Wall on DStv channel 341 South Africa, as a location presenter and newsreader. The Cape Town born media personality was also cast as a presenter on the first season of FiftyFour, a pop culture show targeted at young adults in Africa. It currently airs on satellite stations in a number of countries in Africa and online. Most recently, Dramat published her very own motivational book 21 Days In Full Bloom, which aims to spread positivity through her interactive book to help readers bloom in confidence and to create affirmations during the pandemic. You can spend a day with any well-known person in the world, learning from them and getting life advice from them. Who do you choose to spend the day with? So the obvious and the cliche answer is Oprah who is amazing but then I would also love to spend a day with Issa Rae or Kevin Hart. Both of them inspire me, would have me laughing all day and I am confident I would learn so much from them. Your definition of love is … ? It is the confidence that someone has your back and you have theirs. That could be in different ways, at different times and in different capacities. It could be family, friends, or a significant other. That knowing they are there is a wonderful thing. What is the one thing that most people don't know about you? I love to sing but I have a terrible voice. I am that odd person who actually likes karaoke. It is an absolute vibe for me but not for anyone listening to me sing. The meal that most reminds you of your childhood is … ? Oh, it has to be a stew. Green bean stew or tomato stew. Those two were my absolute favourites. Who motivates and inspires you? I am mildly obsessed with the before and after. Seeing someone level up in their life whether it is health, wealth, emotionally, in their confidence or just taking action toward their dreams, that gets my heart racing. I love it. These everyday people that decide to make a change and really go for it gets me so motivated. The most challenging thing you have gone through in your life is … ? Every time I go to Crossfit I think it’s the most challenging thing in my whole life. But seriously, there have been a few moments if I had to pick one, I would say it was building our home while finding my feet being a new mother and living in temporary accommodation all at the same time. Each of those things on its own would have been challenging but together it was quite a wild time. I am happy for the sacrifice as now our family has a home we enjoy. What book should every South African be reading now … ? My book 21 Days In Full Bloom, obviously. I thought Boundaries by Henry Cloud was an excellent book and could help many of the people that I work with. About 12 years ago I read the book Screw It Let’s Do It – Richard Brandson. It was short, easy to read and so inspiring. I think anyone could read, enjoy it, and walk away feeling energised. What one thing has captured your attention on social media in the past week? I saw a quote this week and I saved it because I just loved it. “Life’s most persistent and urgent question is, ‘What are you doing to others?’” – Martin Luther King jr. If you could only do one exercise for the rest of your life, what exercise would you choose to do? I am going to go with squats. I am all for lovely uh … legs. Share with us a goal that you have set yourself for the new year. I want to make this the year that I reach more people than I have ever reached before. Events, workshops, online, in person, and even through social media. I want to help more people unlock their confidence and happiness zone. The Saturday Star