Johannesburg - This week we feature South African actor and musical performer Craig Urbani. He is best known for his role in the stage musical The Buddy Holly Story, in South Africa and on the West End in London. And on TV, for his roles as Alec Matthews in the SABC3 soapie Isidingo (2006 to 2007) and as Shawn in the SABC3 drama series Shado’s, in 2006. He also features in other TV programmes such as Binnelanders, Ashes to Ashes, Generations, Scandal, The Wild, The Coconuts, and many more. He was the host of the marketing-driven SABC2 reality competition Vodacom ThumbWars, in 2009, and hosted the M-Net reality series Sharp Shooter, in 2010. In 2021 he had a recurring role on the SABC1 soapie Generations: The Legacy. You can star in any theatre production, past or present. Which theatre production would you choose? I would quickly put on the corset and high heels again and play Frank in a heartbeat!  It was the last show I did before the strange days hit us and I didn’t feel like I was by any means done with that extraordinary gift of a character.  Rocky Horror all the way!!! The best thing about being a father is… ? I know we are all biased when it comes to our children, but I really have been blessed with a remarkable human for a daughter!  She has the most beautiful nature and she has given me the most memorable and valuable moments in my life!  Now that she is following in the musical footsteps of her father (God help us!), it is with complete pride and love that I watch her achieve her goals and do it with such maturity and grace. What are the three most popular items in your fridge currently? Yoghurt, cheese, and fig jam!! The first two are for me! The third is for the kid!! The perfect Christmas lunch consists of… ? Anything cooked by my mom and/or my aunt!!  They make the best food! But there must be mince pies, gammon, and roast potatoes!! What is the biggest misconception people have about you? That I abound in confidence and that very little scares me. Tell us about the worst date you've ever had… ? A date with a woman who after having dinner with me and hearing that my industry was battling during the Covid-19 pandemic, decided that she couldn’t see me again because I didn’t earn enough money to not become resentful of her financial success!!!  These shallow, materialistic creatures walk among us! You need to pick one childhood game to play to save your life (aka Squid Game). Which childhood game do you choose to play? 30 Seconds!! I rock that game! What series should all South Africans be watching right now? Modern Love. It’s a very realistic and insightful look at love in this day and age. Your favourite restaurant to visit in SA is… ? And what do you order? The Fireroom at Monte or Bedfordview!!  Have to order one of those steaks that they set alight as they bring it to you! Or the sushi!! You are stuck in an elevator with President Cyril Ramaphosa. What’s the first thing you ask him? Mr Ramaphosa… What was occupying your time during July last year when the country was being ravaged and destroyed by looters and hooligans? The Saturday Star