Johannesburg - A South African language expert has cautioned AfriForum against comparing the singing of the liberation song Dubul' iBhunu (Shoot the Boer) to the genocide against Tutsis in Rwanda. Professor Elizabeth Gunner was testifying in the application by AfriForum, in which the lobby group is asking the High Court in Johannesburg to compel EFF leader Julius Malema to apologise for singing the song, saying it is the root cause of farm murders in the country. The lobby group also wants Malema and his party to pay a fine of R500 000 to a non-governmental organisation that deals with issues of racial hatred. Gunner made the assertion when she was asked to comment about a finding of the Rwanda Tribunal, which found that music composer two of Simon Bikindi’s songs largely contributed to the genocide in Rwanda. In his line of questioning, AfriForum counsel, advocate Mark Oppenheimer, insinuated that the same was happening in South Africa as a result of the singing of the song, but Gunner refuted this. “It is dicey to compare the two. The singing of the Dubul’ Ibhunu or 'Kill the Boer' is a call for change. They were using strong words, but these words were not an injunction for action. Video: Timothy Bernard/African News Agency (ANA) “They merely wanted their government to deal with issues of land restitution and justice. “The two cannot be compared. Binkindi belonged to an anti-Tutsi movement. There were three other radio stations which promoted propaganda. They also had the support of the government. The situation is different in South Africa. So the history of song in Rwanda should be carefully studied and understood. But it cannot be the same in South Africa. Song has a strong lineage, from the ANC, PAC and other organisations. Malema is just carrying out the tradition,” Gunner said. Gunner said the singing of the song by Malema back in March 2010 was a “wake up call to [then president] Jacob Zuma and the ruling ANC of their slow pace in addressing land restitution in the country". She said Malema was making a political statement through a song to his then party about the plight of resistive and disillusioned youth about their living conditions at the time. “It was a long tradition of inter-generational politics. They are using songs as an expression of defiance against a system. They also used to show that they were not going to give up on their desire for land reform,” Gunner said. She, however, emphasised that it was never meant to be carried out literally. In court, she made an example of another EFF song, Thupa Yetla (The Stick Beating is Coming), prior to their maiden participation in the 2014 national elections. She said the song was directed at then president Zuma. According to Gunner, “the stick beating did not mean it was going to be physical. They were just saying they were carrying a lot of weight. So Jacob Zuma must watch out. They will soon be in government”, Gunner said. She also referred to Zuma’s singing one of his own popular songs, Awulethe Umshini Wami (Bring Me My Machinegun), especially in 2005. “He did not expect to be given a gun, but merely used his hands to demonstrate how power is gained using a gun. This is a form of inspiration to people to support the cause. Others join political parties due to songs,” Gunner said. baldwin.ndaba@inl.co.za Political Bureau