Johannesburg - Attention is the currency of the universe. Be careful how you spend it. We become empty by giving too much of ourselves to too many people for far too few returns. Return to yourself. The more you give, the less you become. It is unfortunate that a giving hand breeds entitlement. This is where the parable of teaching a man how to fish dives in. The most recent I have heard someone say being kind to others costs you nothing was from rapper Riky Rick, who is said to have taken his life on Wednesday morning: may he rest (in peace). Rest assured that you are capable of killing yourself by giving kindness to others while you are not kind to yourself. You can do unto others as you would have them do unto you, but remember that reciprocation is not an obligation. Expectations are a curse. Too often we confuse choices with obligations. We all have demons that are constantly tearing through our souls. It is when they reach the surface that we implode. In the grander scheme of things that come to pass, attention is the equivalence of time. No amount of kindness to others can save our souls from imploding. Your attention is a commodity. When you give it, you are paying. I subscribe to the “cup theory” which explains giving and receiving. In this theory, whenever you give, the contents in your cup depletes. And when you receive it fills up. Too many of us walk around with empty cups, full grins, relying on others to pick up our slack, with our hearts on our sleeves. Yet we are constantly appeasing. We assume that our peace comes from pleasing. Being kind to others while self-loathing is synonymous with smiling while you are internally bleeding. If the God within you can’t swim, you need to stop drowning your organs. In 2018 Russian strongman Mikhail Shivlyakov was attempting a 427-kilogram deadlift at the Arnold Sports Festival when he started profusely bleeding from his nose. Don't put too much pressure on yourself, dear human: you do not owe the world a big smile, you owe it to the mirror. I will never tell you to be kind to anyone else, I don't know if you are kind to yourself. How dare I put you under pressure. There are too many types of precious stones and metals, we can’t all be diamonds. Appreciation fills your cup. You can do unto others as you would have them do unto you, but remember that reciprocation is not an obligation. Expectations are a curse. Too often we confuse choices with obligations. But nobody wants to pay attention or learn how to fish. All we want is attention served to us on a silver platter in the same dish as the fish. Attention is a currency. Pay it to yourself. We become empty by giving too much of ourselves to too many people for far too few returns. Return to yourself.