Johannesburg - This week we feature singer, actor, voice-over artist and content creator Miguel Pregueiro. The 26-year-old has released a number of original songs that have hit the airwaves in countries such as South Africa, Brazil, Portugal, Venezuela, Spain and more. Miguel has been featured on platforms such as Expresso Morning Show, Afternoon Express, eNCA, Jacaranda FM, Good Hope FM, Mix FM, Channel 24 and many others here in South Africa. Internationally, he has featured on RTP where they covered a story on his musical journey here in SA. Last month, the musician released a new single, titled For the Night  which followed on from his hit track, Hola. In between releasing his own original music, Miguel has become a well-known content creator on platforms such as TikTok and Instagram. He prides himself on coming up with his own original content and has found significant success in doing so. You are able to collaborate on a track with any South African TikTok personality. Who do you choose? I would choose Noel Deyzel. He has recently become one of the most popular South African content creators on TikTok. He is known for his motivational content related to training and bodybuilding and he has literally inspired people globally with his videos. Many people don’t know this, but we used to gym together years ago, so it would be great to reconnect with an old friend. He isn’t a singer, but who wouldn’t love hearing a track performed by Noel? I know I would. Entertainment value for days right there. The meal that most reminds you of your childhood is…? For some reason the first thing that came to my mind was a packet of Flings and Oreos. I know that isn’t a meal, but I used to eat that every chance I could get. It probably explains the reason why I needed to get a couple root canals done years later. The biggest misconception people have of you is…? I think a lot of people that don’t know me initially think I’m quite an arrogant guy. I find that this happened a lot more often a couple of years ago when I wasn’t showing my personality through my social media. People would make the assumption based off of how I look before getting to know me. It still happens every now and then where someone will say, “I really thought you were arrogant until I actually met you.” Your favourite item of clothing in your closet currently is…? This is super random, but I have to say – my socks. It will be very rare if you see me without socks on. I even sleep with socks on, no matter how hot it may be. I’ve lost count of the amount of pairs I have, but trust me, I’m never in short supply. A wild night of partying or a chilled night in binging Netflix? A large part of my job is going out and performing for others, so I’ve now associated that feeling of being out with work, so I would 100% choose a chilled night in binging Netflix. Your favourite restaurant in SA is? And what do you order? If I go out to eat, it will most often be for breakfast. Somewhere you will find me regularly is at a place by Stoneridge called Café Billi Bi. I always order the same thing there – a salmon eggs Benedict on rye bread with extra avo and grilled halloumi. Top that off with a cappuccino and a glass of water with ice and lemon and you have an incredibly happy Miguel. You are able to watch any live sporting event around the globe. What sporting event do you choose to watch and why? This is the easiest answer by far – football all day every day. Specifically either the World Cup Final (ideally if Portugal were playing in it) or the Champions League Final (a final with Real Madrid in). To be honest any Champions League game where I can watch either of my favourite teams play (Man Utd and Real Madrid) would be a dream come true. When I say I’m obsessed with football, believe me that is an understatement. My dream was always to be a pro footballer. It might surprise a lot of people, but if I was offered a professional football contract versus the opportunity to do a world tour as a singer, I would take the football contract. TikTok, Facebook, Instagram, or Twitter? One hundred percent TikTok. Besides that being the platform I have found the most personal success from, it is also the app I spend more time on as a consumer. You can take on any SA celebrity in a 12-round charity boxing match. Who do you choose to take on? I’d like to start by saying I’ve never been in a fight, so if this were to happen I would want to make it as entertaining as possible. According to a lot of my followers as well as multiple news outlets, I apparently resemble Trevor Noah. So much so for some people that they genuinely believe we are brothers. I know, crazy right? I guess we would give the people what they want. A brother-on-brother battle. Trevor, I’m ready when you are. Your celebrity crush growing up was…? As a kid I was in love with Shakira. I thought maybe just maybe I would stand a chance with her. Plus she seems to be into footballers, so I thought I would use that as my way into her heart. It didn’t happen, unfortunately. She chose Pique over me. It still hurts to talk about. Shakira – the one that got away. Tell us about the worst date you’ve ever had…? This may or may not be a date (definitely not a date) but on my matric vacation, after being quite intoxicated – sorry, mom – while I was locking lips with a stranger, my body couldn’t handle my eyes being closed, so I ended up falling on top of her in the middle of the dance floor. Not my finest moment. She did come back though, so it couldn’t have been that bad. The Saturday Star