Johannesburg - While the demand for sugar-laden soft drinks has been in steady decline over the past few years, the opposite has been true for the sparkling water category.  As consumers seek healthier water alternatives, A1 Fruit Water - a premium natural sparkling fruit water with zero-calories - has rapidly begun to steal market share on SA shelves since launching in 2020. Globally, brands in the sparkling water category are experiencing strong growth and South Africa is on the same course due to the rise of health-conscious consumers. Last year, A1 Fruit Water officially launched in the country, with their range of natural sparkling waters, infused with real African fruit. The natural sparkling fruit water range comes in three flavours; Mandarin, Lemon, and Grapefruit.  Produced in South Africa, the offering is a healthy option for hydration; and is the only offering on shelf that can hold a claim to be sugar-free, vegan accredited, gluten free, diabetic friendly, zero calories, and being sweetener and preservative free.  “Our target market is a group of highly conscious and discerning drinkers who care about what they put in their bodies and how their brands of choice impact the world around them.“ says Jan Strydom, Operations Manager at ONE54 South Africa. As a brand, A1 Fruit Water answers the sustainability call to live local and support local. A1 Fruit Water works with farming partners who are located in the sub-tropical mango and citrus producing region of Hoedspruit in the north of the country.  A1 Fruit Water has national ambitions but has launched with a focus on the Western Cape and Gauteng provinces with products on shelves at Pick n Pay, Spar, independent retailers as well as online at Takealot. For more information on the product visit www.a1fruitwater.com Follow on IG & FB: @a1sparklingwater #HydrationByNature  Available at Pick n Pay or shop on Takealot. The Saturday Star is giving away a mixed A1 Fruit Water Hamper that includes 2 beautiful high quality pink tinted glasses, dried lemons and drink styling tweezers valued at R500 each. To stand a chance to win SMS "A1" followed by your name, surname & email address to 33258.  Terms and conditions apply. Sms cost R1.50 The Saturday Star