As universities begin their academic year this week, many potential students will still not be able to afford their own tertiary education. It is for this reason that brands like Converse SA have put their money where their campaign is. For the second year running, the brand is aiding in the alleviation of student debt in South Africa. This year, the #Kickthedebt campaign is focusing on breaking barriers of culture, style, and innovation to construct new possibilities. The #CreateNext campaign, as it is now known, will be giving away R2 million towards relieving student debt.  As part of the campaign, Converse is also guiding students towards their goals through mentorship by experts who have already overcome hardships. Through their community of ‘All Stars” who have been taken under the brand’s wing and given opportunities to be part of skill building workshops and mentorship talks with experts in their industries. YFM drivetime host Khutso Theledi is a #CreateNext ambassador and in her role she will support the campaign. “The campaign is trying to diminish even a small portion of the result of generational economic despondency in assisting students in colleges and universities who are struggling to finish their studies due to debt. I’m bringing this opportunity to life through my social, digital and radio show platform, by encouraging and exciting the youth in South Africa to combat the barriers of education which is incredibly expensive,” she said. Theledi explained that the campaign resonated with her as she was raised by a single mother. “My mother made significant sacrifices in order for me to study, and because of how high fees for tertiary education was, my mom was held back in how she could best meet those obligations. Not everyone has their parents paying for their tuition fees and I personally know how hard it is when you want to further your studies but don't have the means to do so,” said Theledi. At some point she became discouraged to continue with her studies but was encouraged by her family as they assisted her financially to complete her studies in media and broadcasting at Boston Media House. Since then, Theledi has gone on to make waves at the youth radio station and is now the first woman to host the drivetime afternoon show solo. She also spoke on the importance of education to help eradicate unemployment. “Youth unemployment in South Africa is one of the deepest and most persistent unemployment problems in the world and a major manifestation of shortcomings and failures of the transformation of the country’s higher education. Moreover, South Africa’s current economic growth trajectory isn’t producing the volume and type of jobs required to reverse this disheartening trend in inequality and unemployment, making it even more crucial to take action where one can and this is part of the reason the #CreateNext initiative means so much to me.” In addition to the R2 million pledge, Converse will also be giving an additional R500 000 to those who dare to live on their own terms, who break barriers and create their next opportunity. The campaign runs until the end of February. To submit your nomination form, visit ConverseCreateNext.