As travel restrictions across the globe continue to be lifted after over two years of Covid-19  induced lockdowns, South Africans’ excitement about the return to travel can be overshadowed. This is as many European airports are in chaos, following a fast rebound in the travel and tourism sector which left airports and their service providers seemingly unable to cope with the volumes of visitors entering their doors. The cutting of operational staff, baggage handlers, security personnel and cabin crew has also left airports trying to serve passengers with both hands tied behind their backs. In a bid to help navigate these challenges, Cheapflights, a global travel search site that compares flights, hotels and rental cars, has provided the following practical tips. Consider alternative destinations to escape from crowds South African travellers are looking at familiar travel stomping grounds, including Greece, Portugal, Spain, Italy and France. All these are summer travel hot spots popular with other European holidaymakers as well, so it is likely you will find them overcrowded with tourists. However, Europe as a whole has so much to offer in terms of cultural heritage and traditions, architecture, gastronomy, hidden gems and myriad fascinating experiences just waiting for tourists. Countries like Montenegro, Bulgaria, Slovakia or Austria could be nice alternatives and seem to be less affected by the travel disruption. Try to avoid the busiest travel times School holidays, especially those in South Africa’s winter season, tend to be the busiest times for travelling to Europe, with its warm summer, and many European families heading on holiday with their kids at this period too. So, as airports and airlines are adapting to the greater demand for flights, Cheapflights suggests trying to travel out of peak times. Check the schedule of school breaks and various public holidays in the countries on which you have set your sights. If this period is your only option, consider at least planning no flights for the days when these holidays start and end. It means fewer people in the airports on your arrival and a more pleasant and smooth experience. Flights operated in the early mornings seem to be the least busy, which is also helpful for avoiding crowds at the airports. Choose different  means of transport When planning your journey within Europe, opt for direct flights if they are available to avoid additional stress in case of delays and cancellations. You can quickly filter for direct flight options on Cheapflights to grasp availability and prices.  If flights are beyond your budget, or you can’t secure a flight at a time that matches your required travel period, consider other travel options. These could open up whole new travel experiences. If your itinerary includes a few destinations within Europe, see what coach, train or ferry trips are available to and from your destination, and where they stop on the way. This is a great way to meet new people and experience a road trip without having to put as much planning in as you would if you were self-driving. Stay aware of changes If you’re concerned about flights being delayed or cancelled – a situation that has certainly increased since Covid – make sure you’re always up to date with what’s happening with your flight. Cheapflights explained that some airlines may send you an SMS or email to let you know about a delay or cancellation. But just to be doubly sure, download the airline’s app or keep up to date with flight information on the airline’s website. Check in online and go to the airport well in advance From these updates you can also learn how many hours ahead of your flight your carrier advises you to arrive at the airport to avoid any extra stress. Normally, it’s two hours for domestic flights, and three to four hours for international flights.  The best solution to avoid wasting time in long queues is to check in online. Many European airports allow passengers to proceed with printed or saved-on-mobile boarding passes directly to the security control or to the gates. Keep yourself organised Passports and certain paperwork will be required of you when you reach your destination. Having all of these items ready and easily accessible can help you avoid the delay caused by having to hunt for your documentation – and having the stress of annoyed fellow travellers grumbling behind you. Travel with hand luggage only – but be prepared for security checks Travelling with hand luggage has numerous benefits, including not having to wait at the baggage reclaim belts for big suitcases, and not having to pay for extra weight on your luggage. It’s also far easier to move about when you’re not towing a heavy suitcase plus your hand luggage along with you while travelling.  Prepare a transparent bag with the toiletries, each under 100ml, take off your belt, watch or jewellery, and take out change from your pockets. And if you are bringing any electronic devices with you, make sure you have easy access to them in case you are asked to remove them from your bag. All this can help with a quicker move through the security checks. Consider paying that little extra for fast-track and priority lines Paying an affordable fee to move through the queues quicker is a small price to pay when considering the amount of stress you could feel when waiting for hours in queues that seem endless. At Luton and Manchester Airports, for example, £5 (about 100) will allow you to jump the queues at security, while Stansted Airport charges £7 when booking online. Be entertainment smart Being stuck at the airport for hours – whether you’re arriving for the start of your European holiday or leaving at the end of it – can be frustrating, especially if you have kids. So make sure you have ample entertainment options to keep yourself and your children free from boredom.  Download movies, books or video games to your tablet or phone. Pack a puzzle or colouring book and some colouring pens. Have a card game or two like Uno handy, to keep the whole family entertained. Or create a music or audiobook playlist to listen to while you shut your eyes and catch up on your jetlag. Also have some snacks on hand in case you or your kids get peckish. Pack a care kit Sitting for hours at the airport can leave you feeling a bit dishevelled and uncomfortable. Pack a small care kit with essentials such as a toothbrush and toothpaste, deodorant, facecloth, make-up for touch-ups, headache tablets and phone/iPad charging cables and adaptor. Make sure you have the correct type C adaptors for the European country you are visiting (especially important if you have kids who are watching cartoons and movies on a smartphone or iPad) Have good insurance Should a flight be cancelled for some reason, having insurance could save you from losing part or all of the money spent on your flight tickets. Another option is to purchase tickets that offer flexi-cancellation policies – this will give you peace of mind that, should something happen, you won’t be out of pocket if your flight is cancelled. The Saturday Star