Johannesburg - When politicians water their money trees with the blood of our people, that's when money becomes the root of all evil. And if the entire root system has already become mushy, it is too late to save the plant. South Africa is the plant, we are wobbly in our stance and the soil is soggy. How do we stay grounded when branches and fibres that convey water and nourishment are rotting our anchor? Fungal spores multiply and the fungus starts to spread. The fungus is corruption, corrupt politicians are the spores, and there's too little to differentiate between them and wicked wizards, between botanical politics and mysticism - this is how they alter citizens into carrion flowers, blossoms that emit an odour mimicking the smell of rotting flesh or decaying corpses. Gentle seeds, although our first root shoots downwards, we have uprisings in our dichotomy, designed to be raised to the detriment of the economy. There’s imminent uprising in South Africa due to pressure of unemployment, poverty and inequality. Former president Thabo Mbeki has called it - It is no longer a matter of if, but when unemployment, poverty, corruption, and lawlessness trigger the anger of South Africans. There is something in the air, we have been trigger-happy lately in a scourge of mass shootings akin to a country preparing for a purge, eager to implode, preparing for a war perpetrated by ANC members who are contesting leadership positions in order to enrich themselves - this is where the thickness of blood is compared to water. How much blood, from how many Black bodies, does it take for a transfusion to trickle into the bank account of an ANC member contesting leadership positions in order to enrich themselves? We are drowning, everything is flying higher in prices while lowered salaries lie dormant - we are learning to swim in multiple streams of income, and it is heavy. Our entire root system is already compromised and has become mushy. It is too late to save the plant when a national plan to address the challenges of poverty, unemployment, and inequality does not exist; when President Cyril Ramaphosa failed to make good on his SONA promise to have a "comprehensive social pact" within 100 days. There are too many fires igniting sporadically, burning and harming critical areas of the economy, it is anyone's guess from which direction we will catch the next blaze from fires such as government incompetence, corruption, poor infrastructure, lack of skills, bad policies, rigid labour laws and state-owned enterprises causing market inefficiencies. Corruption is the darkness to light rays all plants require for photosynthesis. Remember, these wizards cast a spell and have altered us into carrion flowers, we reek of death - taverns are mass graves. It is a miracle how we are still able to convert light, oxygen and water into energy; for without adequate light, our energy reserves are depleted and the plant dies. We live in the dangerous mind of a dying nation. The Saturday Star