I recently saw an interview with Emma Thompson, the British actress.  She appeared on the Graham Norton Show.  She was talking about how uncomfortable it was to stand butt naked, in front of a mirror, and to just look at herself. I’m talking about a full-length mirror, with reasonable lighting. Just look at yourself with absolutely no judgement.  Don’t pull in your tummy or lift your breasts, just look. Now imagine Emma Thomson doing it in a movie for the world to see! How spectacularly brave. I have been trying to do it for a couple of weeks now. I’ve got to the naked in front of a mirror part but have been unable to get to the look with no judgement. I have wondered how many of us have done this exercise. Do you think you could? I’ve asked a number of men and women I know whether they would participate in the challenge. Most men have said that they do so almost every day. A couple commented on the mirror not being big enough if they stand sideways! And the women? They all doubted that they could do the exercise without judging their lumps, bumps and scars. It got me thinking about why women are so incredibly tough on themselves. Why we work so hard to meet the highest standards of physical attractiveness if not beauty and I think it all comes down to wanting to be desired and considered pretty. I can hear the collective gasp and outrage from a certain section of the population, and I mean no offence. But I truly believe that everyone not just women want to be loved. My curiosity got the better of me, so I found the movie Ms Thompson refers to – it’s called Good Luck to you, Leo Grande. Now if you’re like my ex-husband and hate being told what a movie is about – skip the next paragraph or two. Ms Thompson plays a woman her own age – about 62, who hires a sex worker to help her experience the pleasures she missed out on in a 32-year-old marriage. Her husband has passed. Her curiosity has not. Leo Grande, the sex worker is tasked with her very ordinary list of wants and needs. I’ll leave the story line there. What I found fascinating is that we see Emma Thompson in a variety of naked states, she has amazing legs by the way. We see him in various states of undress but never completely naked, except for one scene where you see the back of him. You never get to see a full frontal of him! If I think about all the movies I have seen with nudity and sex in them, we always get to see her bits and never his. I wonder if there is a law against it. Like the one that men may sell semen, but women are not allowed to sell eggs! I digress. It is a charming movie that raised many emotions and questions about an older woman’s sexuality and pleasure. A subject dearer to my heart with every passing year. Society is very ageist against women. Radio presenters on a local radio station were making disparaging comments about Madonna’s vulva as if it was somehow disgusting because she is now over 60. We never hear anyone question or comment on how flat Clint Eastwood’s ass is now that he has aged or if his testicles have turned into gongs. The new Top Gun movie has an older, still handsome Tom Cruise in it, but the female lead was re-cast for aesthetic reasons. I know life isn’t the movies, but it is little wonder we have such complexes about how we look. I gave up having sex on top when I caught a glimpse of everything hanging and my pleasure and confidence has suffered because I’m so bloody vain! I wonder how much of my lack of libido has to do with the belief that old women should not be having sex, let alone enjoying it.  I’m sure all these ageist messages must make an impression. And if I am impacted and I know better, then how much worse is it for women who don’t know. I’d like us all to take a long hard look at ourselves in the mirror, butt naked, full frontal and just look. No judgement.  Let me know how it goes and if it shifts anything for you?  And let’s stop making rude comments about older women wanting to experience pleasure.  You can email me on info@lolamontez.co.za