Johannesburg - Not every victim is ferried to a private hospital after an accident; that’s dependent on your class. Not every learner has access to extracurricular amenities in schools or gets special attention in class. As soon as Eskom is privatised they are going to sell us lightning bolts in a glass. Of course the quality of electricity will be the same, but the glass would be designer so you can see the varying degrees of light we use to bring brightness into our lives; or keep the darkness at bay, even if only for a while – we don't see much of the world, we see less of ourselves than in a mirror in the dark. Dear Eskom, we are afraid of the dark; while sitting in it, unemployed and hungry, we are terrified; everyone is scrambling for something and they don't mind ripping through someone or anything else to get it. I get it, everything functional we inherited from the apartheid regime is crumbling; like taking over a second-hand car with a mature mileage and a partial service history written by the previous owner himself – he’s also a mechanic. While the number of load shedding stages is getting high, a new low is the entire country and its economy becoming hostage to angry Eskom employees; a very special degree of incompetence. Apparently casting a vote can change it all when X marks the spot on the better of however many evils, one school of thought says. It’s better to actively support the least bad outcome rather than to abstain, says another. But is the one that says better the devil you know that is most common? I sense that we get a little amnesia after free T-shirts and food parcels, that’s how we are kept on a leash in the shadows, we are children of shadows – birthed under the stars in a darkness cradling the rays of a full moon. We grow to become these shadows, lured into the soul of the city, and the city feeds. The ministry says it’s the Eskom employees. But are Eskom employees less deserving of a cost of living increase in salary? We want to live in the city, not give our souls to it. A fish starts rotting from the head, Eskom’s leadership is also the root cause of the power utility’s failure and demise. Another school of thought says let's fund everyone who can harness water, sun and wind with the minimum necessary red tape. But the political, economic, social and technological barriers limiting private investment in renewable energy are stringent. As soon as Eskom is privatised they are going to sell us lightning bolts in a glass. The glass would be designer so you can see the varying degrees of light we use to bring brightness into our lives. The glass will be a commodity, and where there is a will, commodities are dug up from the ground during load shedding and sold to scrap yards. The Saturday Star