Johannesburg - Miss South Africa 2021, Lalela Mswane, is set to put her financial literacy to the test on live television on Sunday. The KwaZulu-Natal-born model and philanthropist will make an appearance on the premiere of the ‘Sanlam Moola-Money Family Game Show’.  The beauty queen will face off against legendary cricketer Vernon Philander in a special celebrity episode of the financial education TV quiz show and she will be paired with UCT Online High School student, Zoe Petersen. The show is set to air on SABC2 on July 10 at 7.30pm and viewers can expect fireworks as these two super-competitive South African stars battle it out for bragging rights and R50 000 for their chosen charity. A dancer with a law degree, Lalela is tenacious and driven. Her Lalela Mswane Foundation aims to empower parentless youths through mentorship and skills training. So, Vernon Philander had better watch out. He may be known for his fighting spirit and fast-medium bowling style, but Lalela is a tough competitor as well as she’s proved in countless competitions.  Both stars will be playing alongside students who are recipients of a Sanlam UCT Online High School Scholarship – an initiative aimed at helping academically talented young South Africans reach their full potential.  Philander’s partner will be Tahirah Naicker. The first season of the ‘Sanlam Moola-Money Family Game Show’ resonated well with South Africans, and season two promises to follow this with even more sweet – sometimes ‘spicy’ – family interactions, brilliant host banter from Tyson Ngubeni and Nicolette Mashile, and confidence rules to live by from helpful Sanlam financial advisers. Sydney Mbhele, Chief Executive: Brand at Sanlam, says the best way to educate South Africans is to make sure they have fun during the learning process. “Our goal is to present relative, important information in a quiz format, where viewers are entertained and empowered at the same time. “As a group, our goal is to help South Africans live with financial confidence. The fact that the winning celebrity will donate their winnings to a charity is an additional cherry on the top,” he said. Meanwhile, Lalela is determined to improve the financial education levels of South Africans. She is on a mission to be “a fierce world warrior improving the lives of others” and is passionate about sharing her knowledge – including her journey to financial confidence. Here are four key insights from Miss SA on her financial journey and philosophy: Philosophy The 25-year-old explained that she learned some valuable money life lessons the hard way. Now, her philosophy is to be circumspect: “Don’t spend money you don’t have. I’m a firm believer in that.” Lessons from her dad The self-described ‘budget queen’ says that she learned most of her financial knowledge  from her parents, especially her father who was an economist. “He really taught us the value of money. I wasn’t just given money loosely. If I wanted something, I saved for it. There are a lot of lessons that were imparted.” Save, save, save The biggest lesson Lalela learned from her family was the vital importance of saving. She said that’s the one thing she’d like to impart to other young people.  “My mom always told my siblings and me to save – no matter how little you may be making. I think sometimes we’re trapped into thinking ‘I earn so little anyway, there’s no need for me to save’. But you need to save the little you have whenever you can – you just find a way to make it possible.” The Saturday Star