Johannesburg - This week we feature actor, model, published author, and photographer Stevel Marc. Jamaican-born and South African-based, he is well known for his starring role as Vuyo in the 1Magic drama series Unmarried. As a teenager, Marc was discovered as a model by Saint International Modelling Agency. This presented numerous opportunities for international modelling, with contracts presented to him for London, New York, Europe, Asia and South Africa. The teen took the contract in South Africa. Marc has become one of the most recognisable faces and voices for many significant campaigns – from luxury brands to banks and airlines. He began auditioning for film roles when in his early twenties while shaping his craft at the Johannesburg Civic Theatre. Marc has notched up an impressive list of television and film credits, among them Professionals (with Brendan Fraser and Tom Welling), the popular local series Lockdown and uBettina Wethu (he’s filming the second season), Noughts and Crosses, Holiday in the Wild, Black Sails, Of Good Report and Hooten and The Lady. Most recently, Marc was featured globally on television screens in the eagerly anticipated two-part mini-series Theodore Roosevelt, with Leonardo DiCaprio being one of the executive producers. You are able to collaborate with an SA celebrity on a photoshoot. Which celeb would you choose and why? Nhlanhla Nciza. I love her style, energy, and look. The style she exhibits in her music videos is a fashion photographer’s dream to shoot. What is the craziest request from a fan? She asked: “Can I lick your face?” Ahaha! Though I didn’t oblige, she made a mark because here we are talking about it. The meal that most reminds you of your childhood? Mmmm…fried dumplings or Curry goat with rice and peas (Jamaican style preferred). Now I’m hungry! :-). What is the biggest misconception people have of you? Perhaps that I'm a player; when, in fact, I prefer a steady long-term relationship. Your favourite item of clothing in your closet? A Tom and Jerry hoodie from H&M. I Love it! The best words of advice you have been given? “One of the most important decisions you can make in your life is who mothers or fathers your child.” Your celebrity crush growing up? Nia Long. It all started when I saw Boyz N The Hood. Jamaica or South Africa? Which country has the better food? They offer completely different styles. However, if I had to choose, it would have to be Jamaica, and I am not being biased. Lol! How would you like to be remembered? I want to be recognised as a humanitarian. A lover of life. Someone who had a positive impact on people's lives. A person of substance. The series that every South African should be watching? There are a few. Locally, UBettina Wethu and Professionals, and internationally, The Boys and Moon Knight. The Saturday Star