Johannesburg - One of Johannesburg’s leading arts festivals is back and it promises to be bigger and better than ever. #Redfest2022, which is hosted by Redhill School in Morningside, Sandton, will take place from Friday, July 29 to 31 and is set to stage some of the biggest names in theatre, music and the arts. This year’s annual event will also see Redhill School’s extensive grounds utilised to full capacity, with a massive outdoor music festival, an extensive variety of theatre productions, a carefully curated art exhibition, as well as a children’s entertainment area. There will also be an outdoor farmer’s market and indoor coffee shop to enjoy between productions. Executive Head at Redhill School Joseph Gerassi explained that the aim of the festival is to provide for people from all walks of life to enjoy. “The Joburg community is only just beginning to emerge from two years of lockdown, restrictions and chances to connect, not to mention a scarcity of opportunities to enjoy and  celebrate the arts,” he said. “The Redhill Arts Festival aims to deliver on both fronts and families and friends can get together to make some much-needed memories while also enjoying some of the finest dramatic productions and musical performances that South Africa has to offer.” The Redhill Arts Festival was originally launched in 2017 and year on year, the festival has continued to attract a variety of up-and-coming  artists and performers, while also showcasing some of South Africa’s finest talent. “2022 will be our biggest Redhill Arts Festival to date,” explained Gerassi. “Not only are we hoping to provide  the wider Joburg community with an event unlike anything else that they have experienced in Gauteng, but any surplus funds raised will be used to broaden the scope of next year’s event, reach an even wider audience, and ensure that all artists are paid generously for the many months of work that go into each production.” Redhill’s student-led media company, RedMedia, will also be integral to #Redfest2022’s coverage both before and during the event. Comprising RedRadio, the school’s 24/7 radio station, and RMP, the school’s film studio, RedMedia students have already begun rolling out an extensive media campaign to promote the Redhill Arts Festival to other schools. “One of our key offerings at Redhill School is offering our students real-world experience,” Gerassi said. “We strongly believe that not all learning takes place in the classroom, but that opportunities to discover, grow and develop their intrinsic skills and passions can prove invaluable once they have graduated from the school. RedMedia is just one of the many real-world experiences we offer students, and continue to be blown away by the value and insight they bring to the hosting of a community-wide arts festival.” For more information, visit www.redhillartsfestival.co.za The Saturday Star