There is a clear need to find lasting solutions for the current energy crisis afflicting our country. The debilitating constraints on power provision are now severely impacting the ability of people to achieve a better quality of life. Such solutions must take into account an analysis of the reasons for the spate of disruptions and identify the alternatives that are on hand to reach a situation where sustainable sources of electricity becomes available. In places such as Soweto and greater Johannesburg, the electricity situation has now reached critical proportions. This should concern all South Africans, given the reality that this region contributes about 16% to the national economy. At a recent electricity summit hosted by the Zojazem / Motlana Parliamentary Constituency Office, participants noted the fact that residents of this area have experienced an exorbitant volume of power outages. Of particular concern is the indiscriminate nature of the disruptions – it affects both those who do not pay as well as those who diligently pay for the power they consume. Many reasons for the problem have been offered, and similarly, many solutions are brought forward. Clearly, one reason is related to the non-payment for services which leaves Eskom without adequate revenue to maintain or repair its infrastructure. This has further ripple effects into the community. Certain elements – allegedly including Eskom employees – make money by facilitating illegal connections. This, inevitably, lead to an even more fragile network and further damage to infrastructure caused by overloading. It has also given rise to criminal activity. In many areas, criminal gangs use the cover of load shedding to steal cables and sell them to unscrupulous dealers. We are getting locked into a vicious cycle of theft, replacement, and further theft. Government has initiated steps to resolve the challenges pertaining to electricity generation and create a sustainable energy environment. However, many of the initiatives to add more megawatts to the grid will not produce short-term results. In the meantime, the current situation of outages and load shedding has become unbearable, and there is a clear need for higher levels of urgency to find lasting solutions. Such solutions should also fit in with our broader vision of a transition towards a low-carbon economy. We need to reduce our reliance on energy that is derived from the burning of fossil fuels, such as coal, which accounts for the bulk of our supplies. The impact of climate change is already being felt in communities. The future we are talking about has already arrived. We are already seeing the effects of climate change which have the potential to create more damage to our planet and communities. Already, residents of Johannesburg have to cope with more frequent and more violent floods caused by extreme weather patterns. In KwaZulu-Natal, the rebuilding of infrastructure and homes caused by the recent devastating floods will take months to complete. We are also living in a global environment where most of our major trading partners are implementing measures to penalise the export of items produced by high-carbon economies. Our failure to introduce similar measures will adversely affect our ability to participate in global markets ,with inevitable impacts on our ability to create jobs, reduce inequality and stimulate economic development. At the same time, we need to bear in mind that the transition to a low-carbon economy must be achieved without hindering the country’s pursuit of its socio- economic objectives. This is what we call the ‘just energy transition.’ Our progress to a low-carbon economy must not compromise our pressing daily efforts to address unemployment, reduce inequality and eliminate poverty. Stabilising energy provision is a prerequisite for residents to enjoy a better quality of life and enable them to participate fully in the local and broader economy. To reach our true growth potential, we must find solutions which encompass both the generation side as well as issues within society pertaining to non-payment, illegal connections, cable theft and vandalism of infrastructure. Moving forward, we should be guided by the objectives of the National Development Plan, which calls for a reduction in our reliance on energy sources which increase carbon emissions. Such sources are harmful to the environment and contribute to the impact of climate change, including rising temperatures, severe flooding, increased droughts and water shortages that are already being experienced by communities across the country. The National Council of Provinces is an important instrument created by the Constitution to ensure the interests of provinces and local government are protected, and the voices of communities are heard. Through our work in constituency offices the NCOP listens to the concerns of citizens and ensures that their contributions are prioritised when government takes key decisions that affect the lives of all.  Mr Amos Masondo is the Chairperson of the National Council of Provinces.