Johannesburg - South Africa hit stage six load shedding at the end of June and since then, the nation has been experiencing power cuts for prolonged periods at a time. This has meant almost double the electricity downtime in one load shedding ‘shift’ or additional shifts being added to areas’ existing allocations. These extended blackouts have also left many homes and businesses disrupted, Jonathan Hurvitz, CEO of Teljoy, an online household appliances and furniture retailer, says. “This is really stressful for people who work from home. And load shedding shifts that run in the early morning or evening hours are especially trying for families needing to prepare meals, do homework, and get kids ready for school or bedtime,” said Hurvitz. He says the trick is to be prepared with things like backup power, gas-powered appliances, and support technology in case computer batteries die. “Buying all of these items can get very pricey though,” Hurvitz comceeds, “especially if you’ll only be needing them when you have load shedding. Here are Hurvitz’s five practical tips for surviving load shedding - and saving money at the same time. Have reliable backup power A portable generator or inverter can keep basic things like computers, TVs, WiFi, and lights on so you don’t have to worry about not meeting a work deadline, or the kids not being able to do their homework or have a warm dinner. The size of the inverter will depend on what you want to keep powered up.  To run a computer with a 17-inch screen, a radio and some lights, for example, you’ll need around 430 watts - but it’s advisable to buy an inverter that gives you between 10% and 20% more power than you estimate. This way you won’t be caught needing more power than you have available. “Ranging from R1 500 to upwards of R 60 000 - if you need to power more than the basics - the cost to purchase a power station can be hefty. Buying a one or two-month subscription for a portable power station at R399 per month makes this option a lot more palatable and feasible,” said Hurvitz. Upgrade your globes Did you know that you can get globes created specifically for power outages? These clever LED globes have an inbuilt battery that stores energy while the light is on. When the electricity cuts, they revert to battery power, and you’ll still have light for a couple of hours. Gas for the win Having some gas-powered appliances like a gas stove or gas braai can save you from having to eat peanut butter sandwiches for dinner when loadshedding hits in peak cooking hours. “You can also get a gas tank/cylinder cooker top to fit directly onto your gas bottle if you’re making a cup of tea or want to cook up something warm and need to heat a pot or pan,” suggested Hurvitz. Know your load-shedding-friendly restaurants Sometimes it’s just easier to let others cook for you and not have to plan your meals around load shedding. Hotel restaurants are usually a safe bet as most hotels have backup generators. For example, the Radisson Blu Hotel Waterfront in Cape Town has a generator, while those living in Johannesburg can head over to Radisson RED Rosebank if you need an establishment that can serve warm meals. It’s winter, so cold food in the dark doesn’t sound very appealing to most people right now. Go solar powered Solar-powered lamps are excellent sources of light that can be recharged in the sun when their energy store runs out. This is a great way to save money, as you only need the sun and don’t have to keep on buying expensive batteries. When load shedding hits at night, the last thing you want to be doing is scrambling around looking for your lamps, lanterns, or torches. So ahead of load shedding times, make sure your lamps are fully charged and place them in strategic spots in your home where they “live”, so you’ll always know where they are when the lights go out. Keep your tech charged Planning on snuggling up in a warm bed and catching up on Instagram or watching your favourite movie on your laptop? Make sure that you have all your needed devices fully charged so you don’t get halfway through The Proposal before your laptop dies. The same goes for your mobile phone or tablet. Have them fully charged and ready to use when you need them. Have a backup plan If you don’t own a tablet, or have a laptop that has a short battery life, you can also get a subscription for either of these from Teljoy. That way you can still enjoy that nail-biting series, or finish off a proposal that you need to get out the next day. The Saturday Star