Johannesburg - Johnny Barbuzano is inconsolable. It was just a few days ago that the well-known director and writer was wrapping up season three of hit Netflix series How to Ruin Christmas when he received the devastating news of the untimely death of actress Busi Lurayi. Lurayi, who starred in the hit series How To Ruin Christmas, "passed away suddenly" and was pronounced dead at her home by medical personnel last week Sunday. “It’s been a strange week. We’d just wrapped production on season three and this news has left us all numb,” said Barbuzano. The 36-year-old starred as Tumi Sello in the Netflix series How to Ruin Christmas. The first season, How to Ruin Christmas: The Wedding, debuted in December 2020, while the second season How to Ruin Christmas: The Funeral, premiered the following year. Netflix announced in mid-June that the third season of How to Ruin Christmas: The Baby Shower was in production. Lurayi received the South African Film and Television Awards (Safta) Golden Horn Award for Best Actress in a TV Series for her performance in the show last year, while this week Lurayi received a posthumous nominated in the South African Film and Television Awards, in the Best Actress category, alongside Ashley De Lange, Shamilla Miller, Julia Anastasopoulos and Ilse-Lee van Niekerk. Barbuzano, who directs the hit series, said South Africa had lost a gem in Lurayi. “Busi has been a force, not only on our screens, but also on stage and the dance scene. “She was brave in so many ways, always passionate and dedicated to her roles. Her nominations and awards pay tribute to the kind of loss we’ve experienced,” said Barbuzano. He described Lurayi as a tenacious, talented, creative and a never dull actress. “She was a firecracker. You’d have to be on your game with her character’s and story or she’d call you on it. She was challenging, but good challenging,” he said. In addition to playing Tumi in How to Ruin Christmas, Lurayi portrayed Phumzile on the sitcom City Ses'la and its spin-off Ses'Top La, with her winning Safta Golden Horn Awards in both 2006 and 2011 for her performances. Other roles included Thandi in Wild at Heart, Dr Lungile Asumadu in Vutha, Winnie Molepo in Sokhulu and Partners II and Nomsa Sibisi in S.I.E.S. Lurayi also had a guest appearance on E.R, playing Sittina in the episode There Are No Angels Here. Barbuzano, who worked closely with Lurayi on the set of How to Ruin Christmas, said casting her for the role of Tumi was an easy decision as she was perfect for the role. “She was amazing as Tumi. It’s like the role was written for her. There will always be only one Tumiza. There were a couple of other strong options for the role of Tumi , but Busi brought an edge to the character – she was funny, edgy and different – which was perfect for Tumi,” he said. Off set, Barbuzano said Lurayi’s true character was shown when she was around her daughter Ayana. “Busi’s true character was shown whenever she brought her daughter on set. She was an incredible mother. Extremely nurturing, balanced, fun and disciplined,” he said. Meanwhile, Lurayi’s manager and close friend and president of Eye Media Artists agency, Brian Makau paid tribute to the actress. He said the actress recently celebrated bagging new roles and it was a conversation he never thought would be their last. “She was like a sister. We bought flowers for each other all the time,” Makau told the media this week. “There were moments I was upset with her, and moments where I was over the moon with her, and Thursday was one of those days, but she said she wasn’t feeling well,” he said. Makau also described Lurayi as a great mother. “As a mother, she was a mama bear. She installed so much etiquette into Ayana. She brought her to my place many times and she was like a little mini Busi. She was so hands-on with her. Busi told me she gave the industry everything she could. When she would go for a casting, she would always get the role. She wouldn’t go to a casting she didn’t believe in. “Every nomination she got in the Saftas, she won. She was very sentimental about the projects she got involved in. She would say no to a lot of things. She knew what she was capable of. “She presented an incredible performance all the time. She knew what challenged her and she went for those roles. Her performances were electrifying. She always performed as if it was her last,” he said. The details of Lurayi’s funeral are yet to be confirmed. The Saturday Star