Johannesburg – ‘Tropika Island of Treasure’ is back and wants you to tell them what makes you smooth enough to compete on the island with the All Stars. The hit competition reality show has taken South Africa on a smooth wave of taste and entertainment for more than a decade, boasting lush tropical locations from the Maldives to Zanzibar, Mauritius, Phuket, Mexico, Jamaica, Seychelles and Curacao in the Caribbean, and it is back again. This year, the highly anticipated 10th season is bigger and better than ever before. For what is set to be its smoothest – the island themed game show has partnered with Mr Price Home for the auditions phase where hopefuls will be able to submit in person audition videos at a Tropika island themed audition booth that will be stationed at selected Mr Price Home shops. Catch some of your favourite All-Stars and some other familiar faces getting in on the audition action in the following cities: – Canal Walk, Cape Town: 20 – 22 May 2022 – The Pavillion, Durban: 27 – 29 May 2022 – Sandton City, Joburg: 3 – 5 June 2022 Look forward to re-enactments of some exciting island games and days filled with the smoothest and coolest spot prizes.  The SABC 3 ‘Expresso Morning Show’ crew will be tailgating all the fun and games with a live recording on Fridays at the live audition booths so bring your game face. Be in the know and never miss an update by following @MyTropika on Twitter, Facebook and Instagram and lookout for the #Tropika to get all the latest alerts. “’Tropika Island of Treasure ALL STARS’ will be giving many fans an opportunity to build their profiles, participate on the show to stand a chance to win a shared R1 million plus spend time with their favourite celebrity – a once in a life time opportunity,” says Miantha Roux, Clover Beverages marketing manager. Auditions are currently open online as well, and hopefuls who are up for the challenge can forward their videos by Whatsapping their name to 082 857 8054 and follow the link to upload their audition videos, or they can upload their auditions on social media using the #Tropika and tagging @mytropika. Everyone is a winner with Tropika, that’s why consumers also stand a chance to win awesome prizes when buying their favourite Tropika.  There are instant prizes that consumers can stand a chance to win by searching for their unique code under the Tropika caps.  If you find the word “TREASURE” under the cap of your favourite Tropika pack you stand a chance of winning one of 10 BIG prizes such as a R250 000 worth of Suzuki products, R10 000 worth of Uber vouchers and smooth home appliances. “The audition booths at Mr Price Home stores will give fans a chance to stand out from the crowd by showing us their talents, strengths and smooth vibes that they will bring to the show - they will get to record a video and post to their own social media platforms,” says Roux. Come and audition, and it could be you joining them on the island. The Saturday Star