Johannesburg - Mothers are the architects of society as they play a huge role in their children’s lives. Caring, loving and teaching their children is a constant job with no pay or holidays. In a bid to celebrate the leading women in our lives, the Saturday Star commemorated Mother’s Day with some delicious eats and treats at the Bakeology Studio in Melrose, Johannesburg this month. The two-day event on the weekend of May 7 and 8, which was in collaboration with Independent Media’s the Saturday Star as well as The Star, was a fun-filled gathering to honour the leading women in our lives. The proceedings gave the newspapers’ readers the chance to create an acclaimed French dessert. Bakeology’s chef Nkoe Ivy Mnisi said that the experience was close to her heart. “When you are in that moment, in the studio, baking, you forget about everything and feel so focused,” she explained. “What I love about it is that one can take the knowledge and make extra money with the skills one has obtained at Bakeology Studio.” She added that the studio is also a place for loved ones to spend time together. “It is also really fun for the little ones and seeing them bake, you can see the love and enjoy the experience.” Meanwhile, Bakeology’s head chef Malvin Ndlovu was left impressed with the following of the baking protocols during the Mother’ Day event. “Working with The Star  and the Saturday Star has been such an enriching experience, they have remained professional and respectful of all requirements,” he said. “During this time we are so pleased to say that all attendees who came were observing the correct protocols and protecting each other as good citizens should be doing.” He added that Bakeology is proud of the work they do. And Rebecca Dickens from Bakers Pantry was thrilled with the turnout on the weekend. “It was a lovely turnout with lovely people and a morning well spent enjoying a beautiful breakfast.” She added that she ensured that all attendees had the ingredients, equipment and tools they needed to make the dessert on the day, which was a French dessert Rose de sable au chocolat. “I missed my mom but I also had such a lovely time with everyone.” Bakeology’s head patisserie chef Sunaina Lalloo explained that traditionally, Rose des sables au chocolat is a sweet, simple combination of chocolate, and flakes. “I have recreated this traditional recipe by adding various additions to make this dessert more enjoyable.” She said that tempering one’s chocolate and adding a flavour personalised the baking experience. “We can never say no to more chocolate but being Mother’s Day, managing the amount of sweetness for our moms, grans, oumas  and gogos  is important, so a dash of sesame seeds and nuts does the trick and certainly adds a little extra crunch to this set dessert,” she said. Meanwhile, Pam and Emilio Singh who participated in the Mother’s Day festivities described the baking class as “enjoyable and relaxed”. “We learned about a completely new type of dessert which we now highly recommend.” Another participant Gugulethu Tshabalala also enjoyed her time at the Bakeology Studio. “I truly enjoyed the experience at the Bakeology Studio, from the friendly and welcoming staff and chef, to the dessert which is so easy to make with affordable ingredients yet so tasty.” Apart from the delicious array of sweet treats at the two-day Mother’s Day event, there was also virgin champagne on offer as well as croissants and many more goodies. As we reach the end of May and the month of mothers, Bakeology believes that mothers should be celebrated on a daily basis. “Mother’s Day should be every day and we wish we can do this again,” Bakeology’s assistant baker Samantha Khoza said. The Saturday Star